mind your decisions i'm preshtalwalkar
abcd is a square point e
is exterior to the square such that e a
is equal to 5 eb is equal to 2
and e c is equal to 4. what is the area
of square
abcd i thank elmer for the suggestion
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
suppose the square has a side length
equal to x
consider the following right triangle
suppose its legs are equal to a
and b by my favorite right triangle
theorem we have a squared plus b
squared is equal to two squared which is
equal to four
consider then the following right
triangle one leg is equal to a
plus x and the other leg is equal to b
therefore where the quantity a plus x
squared plus b
squared is equal to 4 squared and that's
equal to 16.
we finally have this right triangle one
leg is equal to
a and the other leg is equal to x plus b
we thus have a squared plus the quantity
b plus
x squared is equal to 5 squared and
that's equal to 25.
let's now focus on these three equations
consider the middle equation we first
expand it out
now notice we have an a squared plus b
squared
we know that this is equal to 4 so we
can substitute
from here we will solve this equation
for a
we'll subtract 4 from both sides we'll
then subtract x squared from both sides
and then we'll divide both sides by 2x
we thus get what a is equal to in terms
of x
from here we'll do the same thing in
this equation except we'll solve for b
we'll first expand out we then have a
squared plus b squared and that's equal
to 4.
we'll solve this equation for b we'll
subtract 4 from both sides
we'll subtract x squared from both sides
and then we'll divide both sides by 2x
we thus have b in terms of x
we can take these expressions for a and
b and substitute that into the first
equation
we end up with the following equation
we'll first simplify it
and then we'll multiply both sides by 4x
squared
from here we need to solve this equation
for x squared
we know the area of the square is equal
to x squared
and we'll let that be equal to u let's
substitute in
we'll now expand out and then collect
like terms
what we have is a quadratic equation in
u
we can thus use brahmagupta's quadratic
formula to solve for u
we end up with two possibilities once we
simplify this
we get something that's approximately
31.8
and another possibility that's
approximately 9.2
let's now consider these two
possibilities recall the area is equal
to x squared which is equal to u
so substitute back in for x squared now
recall
that a is equal to 12 minus x squared
all over 2x
since we want e to be exterior to the
square
we must have a be a non-negative number
then since the square's side length x is
greater than zero
we have x squared is less than or equal
to twelve
therefore we cannot have x squared be
approximately equal to 31.8
we exclude this possibility we thus have
the answer that
x squared or the area is equal to 41
minus the square root of 511 all over 2
and that's the answer thanks for making
us one of the best communities on
youtube
see you next episode of mind your
decisions where we solve the world's
problems
one video at a time
you